"PHISH WWW Site"_pws :c
:link(pws,../phish.html)

<BODY>

:line

PHISH Pheatures :h3

The PHISH package is open-source software, distributed under the
Berkeley Software Development (BSD) license.  This effectively means
that anyone can use the software for any purpose, including commercial
redistribution. :ulb,l

The PHISH library is a small piece of code (few 1000 lines), with a
compact API (couple dozen functions).  It has a C interface, so that
it can be easily called from programs written in a variety of
languages (C, C++, Fortran, Python, etc).  The library can be compiled
on any platform with a C++ compiler. :l

The PHISH library comes in two flavors with the same API: one based on
message passing via the MPI library, the other based on sockets via
the open-source "ZMQ"_zmq library.  This means you need one or both of
these packages (MPI, ZMQ) installed on your machine to build a minnow
(process) that uses the PHISH library. :l

:link(zmq,http://www.zeromq.org)

PHISH nets (programs) consist of one or more collections of minnows
(schools), hooked together in defined communication patterns, to
encode an algorithm or computation, The toplogy of a PHISH net is
specified in an input script, which is text files with a simple
command syntax. :l

PHISH minnows can define one or more input and output ports for
sending and receiving datums.  This allows schools of minnows to be
hooked together in a variety of communication patterns. :l

PHISH minnows can be written to operate on datums of various types
(e.g. integers or floating-point values or strings).  This allows
minnows to be re-used in various PHISH nets. :l

A PHISH wrapper (pun intended) for Python is provided, so that minnows
that call the PHISH library can be written in Python.  Minnows written
in different languages (e.g. C++ or Python) can be used
interchangeably in a PHISH input script. :l

The PHISH library exchanges data between minnows with strict data
typing rules, so that minnows can be written in different languages
(e.g. C++ vs Fortran vs Python) or run on different machines (4-byte
vs 8-byte integers).  :l

PHISH input scripts are processed via a tool called
"bait.py"_doc/Section_bait.html tool which can also run them as an MPI
or socket-based program. :l

PHISH input scripts use a "hook"_doc/bait_hook.html command which
allows data to be exchanged in various patterns between schools of
minnows.  This enables parallelism in data processing to be easily
expressed and exploited. :l

PHISH nets can be run on a single processor, so long as the OS
supports multiple processes.  They can be run on a multicore box.
They can be run on any distributed-memory or shared-memory platform
that supports MPI or sockets.  Or they can be run on a geographically
dispersed set of machines that support socket connections. :l

A PHISH net can look for incoming data on a socket port.  It can
likewise export data to a socket port.  This means that two or more
PHISH nets can be launched independently and exchange data.  This is a
mechanism for adding/deleting minnows (processes) to/from a
calculation on the fly. :l

PHISH minnows are included that wrap non-PHISH applications that read
from stdin and/or write to stdout.  This allows such an application to
be used in a PHISH net and exchange data with other minnows. :l,ule

<script src="https://share.sandia.gov/_assets/js/snl-lite-clf.min.js"></script>

</BODY>
