"Previous Section"_fws - "FireHose WWW Site"_fws - "Next Section"_design.html :c

<BODY>

:link(fws,README.html)

Motivation :h3

Streaming data arrives continuously and in volumes and rates that are
ever increasing.  Timely processing of streaming data is
computationally challenging due to limited resources.  These include
limited CPU operations that can be performed on a datum before the
next one arrives, limited memory for storing state information about
the stream, limited disk storage for the data itself so that the
datums may only be seen once, and limited budgets for energy
consumption or CPU/memory/disk resources.

In some settings, it's not known in advance what interesting features
are embedded in the stream of data.  In an algorithmic sense, this
makes the above limitations even more challenging.  In addition, the
hardware options for collecting streaming data are increasing in
variety and capability from multicore CPUs, to GPUs, to
special-purpose processors like Tilera chips, to solid-state (Flash)
disks.  While choices are a good thing, they also challenge developers
of stream-processing software to support a growing range of hardware.

Computing on streaming data has been referred to as "drinking from a
firehose".  Hence the name FireHose for this suite of stream
processing benchmarks.

The main purpose of FireHose is to enable comparison of streaming
software and hardware, both {quantitatively} vis-a-vis the rate at
which they can process data, and {qualitatively} by judging the effort
involved to implement and run the benchmarks.  Because we are both
users and designers of software for stream processing, we have wanted
for some time to define useful metrics for the speed and flexibility
various software/hardware solutions can offer.  FireHose represents
our initial effort in this regard.

We plan to release the benchmark definitions and sample implementation
code openly on the FireHose web site, so that anyone can implement
them with their own stream-processing software and/or run them on
their own hardware.  Our hope is that this effort will generate
interest and feedback from the academic and commercial streaming
communities.  With their help in refining and exanding the suite of
benchmarks, and their contributions of performance results, we hope
the FireHose benchmarks can become a valuable resource for those
interested in stream processing.

The initial benchmarks in the FireHose suite reflect common tasks
typical of real-time processing of network packets arriving at high
rates as a network is monitored, e.g. for cybersecurity purposes.  We
plan to augment the suite with benchmarks that process streaming graph
edges, and are open to additional suggestions as well.

<script src="https://share.sandia.gov/_assets/js/snl-lite-clf.min.js"></script>

</BODY>
